README.md, before:

chat
====

***"Une plateforme de discussion temps réel autour de thématique. Pour ce faire la plateforme permet la création de "room" dans laquelle les utilisateurs pourront échanger autour d'un sujet, d'une communauté ou de tout et rien"***

## Release 2

**Chat**
- [x] Upgrade socket.io to 1.0
  - [x] Use redis for sessions (for socket and express)
  - [x] Improve lisibility by cleaning http/socket launching
- [ ] Disconnection bugs
  - [ ] Receive in welcome anything needed to refresh views: room (user, profile[, history]) and onetoone (profile[, history])
    - [ ] History ?
  - [x] Update room user list and room data (and re-render user list and header)
  - [ ] Update onetoone data and re-render header
  - [ ] Add a separator
- Change protocol join/leave protocol
  - [ ] socket.io:room subscription is automatically handled by server side on welcome (for current socket) and room:welcome (for other socket)
  - [ ] now "join" is only triggered by client-side on a "click" to open a room
  - [ ] a new message "room:pleasejoin" indicate to client that he should create a model/view for this room (but he is already subscribed)
- Bug fixes
  - [ ] Add a check on connection to verify is user have "username"
  - [ ] What's happen when a message is posted by someone (on a room) and my client is in sleep (eg. : tablet) ?
- [ ] Auto-update of the interface on room/user:change
  - [ ] WS: implement REDIS cache for user and room
  - [ ] WS: read in REDIS cache only "even" for socket.getUsername-like function to have always last data
  - [ ] HTTP: implement emitter in user and room form POST
  - [ ] HTTP: invalidate REDIS cache in user and room form POST
  - [ ] WS: implement corresponding events: room:update/user:update (or user:nickname, user:avatar, user:color, room:avatar and user:color)
  - [ ] JS: on previous events update IHM: room tab/header, onetoone tab/header

**Room ops**
- [x] Take in consideration for room:topic (centralize isGranted)
- [x] Redraw also the room header
- [ ] Repair room:deop client crash
- [ ] Sort room users list also on ownership/op status
- [ ] Add a 'room ops' list
- [ ] Factorize socket room op/owner detection in helper and update room:op/deop events

**Theme**
- [ ] Implement the new global construction
- [ ] Find i18n solution on client and server
  - [ ] Traduction fr

**Hosting**
- [ ] Implement base FQDN conf and logic to redirect each request on it (HTTP requests only)

**Branding**
- [ ] Créer la page Facebook
- [ ] Create Google Analytics account
- [ ] Changer le proriétaire du domaine : MARTINE BLAJMAN
- [ ] Soumettre le site à Google
- [ ] Créer une email contact@
- [ ] Créer une email martine@

## Release 3

**Chat**
- [ ] Change the to server->client messages : room:join/leave and user:open/close (for something like ?)
- [ ] Implement async series/waterfall in socket code
- [ ] Replace room:out by user:disconnect on socket disconnection
- Room/onetoone history step 2
  - [ ] Add Skype link to load more history
  - [ ] Implement in user:open process

**Content**
- [ ] Emails: forgot, password changed, signup
- [ ] Homepage
- [ ] Formulaire : libellés des champs, messages d'aide, messages de confirmation

**Cleaning**
- [ ] Move email configuration in conf files
- [ ] Test it on IE8-11/FF/tablet

**Help**
- [ ] Help infobox on chat interface + help button
- [ ] Help block with capture to explain the Facebook signup procedure (find best practices on internet)
- [ ] First entrance 'tutorial' (5 slides) + button to replay

**Features**
- [ ] Add bookmark a room star in header with favorites rooms in home and account and profile

**Room/user design**
- [ ] Add "your rooms" on homepage
- [ ] Add "room owned/oped/joined" on user profile

**Tooling**
- [ ] Backup
- [ ] Monitoring
- [ ] Minimum virtual traffic generation
- [ ] Basic grunt sample data injection (connect, disconnect, join/leave, create, message, ...)

## Release 4

**Chat**
- [ ] Room kick
- [ ] Auto-mention user in room message ($.fn.mentionize())

**Performance/security/maintenability**
- [ ] Compress JS: https://github.com/JakeWharton/uglify-js-middleware
- [ ] Strongify password constrains (signup, login and forgot, very long or complex)
- [ ] Remove HOGAN and re-add EJS
- [ ] Find email factorisation/rendering solution

**Social**
- [ ] Invite users in room
- [ ] Invite users in room (Facebook)
- [ ] Invite users in room (email)
- [ ] Invite your friend on donut (Facebook)

**Features**
- [ ] Add option to no join #General on connection

**Presence management**
  - [ ] Each user received on client side (room user, owner, onetoone user, home users ... but not search engine users) are instanciated as a User Model
  - [ ] This model is stored ALSO in a global knownUsers collection
  - [ ] Each model "listen for a user presence" socket.io room
  - [ ] View of this model (could have lot of different template) ... should listen for model modification : how to handle user list (room users) that are re-drawn totally? With the block listening for collection/model change?
  - [ ] How to cleanup users that have totally leave our vision space (no longer in the room we are, no one to one open, not displayed on room)

## Next releases

Critical:
- [ ] Room ban (time and permanent)
- [ ] Fix bug that maintain user logged in chat on logout
- [ ] Introduce guest mode (= no ?) and allow guest option

Chat:
- [ ] Replace user_id by username in user:profile request

Backend:
- [ ] Traditional page secured zone
- [ ] Room crud
- [ ] User crud
- [ ] Instant online user list
-- [ ] real time activity monitor (multi connections)
- [ ] Instant active room list
-- [ ] real time activity monitor
- [ ] Server list and state
- [ ] Aggregate some data to have count 

Features:
- [ ] Message history on arrow up/down (localstorage ?)
- [ ] Highlight messages of the same user of this message
- [ ] Bookmark user
- [ ] Add sound on events
- [ ] Private room
- [ ] User can black-list other users (invitation and onetoone)
- [ ] Add form validation client-side: account/*, login, signup

Mobile:
- [ ] Make it work on tablet/phone (browser)
- [ ] (mobile) Port a mobile version with Steroids.js
- [ ] Identify and track devices for each socket/activity

Ideas:
- [ ] Room widget to paste on a website to incentive website visitor to join the room
- [ ] Loyalty, advanced offline notification system (email, sms, frequency (instant, daily, weekly), filter (all activity, mentions, one to one, room where i am) with direct link to room/one to one allow fast anwser (even on mobile)
- [ ] Public mod for a room (all the content is visible by anyone)
- [ ] Pin a message
- [ ] Hyperlink analyse and open graph extraction with hover popin in rooms and discussions (specific template for YouTube content)

## Project

- [ ] Run OPQAST security checklist
- [ ] Mocha/Chai + casperjs tests

Commit message:

Improve "reconnect" logic to refresh all IHM view with "welcome" event data instead of sending room:join and user:open event a each reconnection.

README.md, after:

chat
====

***"Une plateforme de discussion temps réel autour de thématique. Pour ce faire la plateforme permet la création de "room" dans laquelle les utilisateurs pourront échanger autour d'un sujet, d'une communauté ou de tout et rien"***

## Release 2

**Chat**
- [x] Upgrade socket.io to 1.0
  - [x] Use redis for sessions (for socket and express)
  - [x] Improve lisibility by cleaning http/socket launching
- [x] Disconnection bugs
  - [x] Receive in welcome anything needed to refresh views: room (user, profile[, history]) and onetoone (profile[, history])
  - [x] Update room user list and room data (and re-render user list and header)
  - [x] Update onetoone data and re-render header
  - [x] Add a separator
- Change protocol join/leave protocol
  - [ ] socket.io:room subscription is automatically handled by server side on welcome (for current socket) and room:welcome (for other socket)
  - [ ] now "join" is only triggered by client-side on a "click" to open a room
  - [ ] a new message "room:pleasejoin" indicate to client that he should create a model/view for this room (but he is already subscribed)
- Bug fixes
  - [ ] Add a check on connection to verify is user have "username"
  - [ ] What's happen when a message is posted by someone (on a room) and my client is in sleep (eg. : tablet) ?
- [ ] Auto-update of the interface on room/user:change
  - [ ] WS: implement REDIS cache for user and room
  - [ ] WS: read in REDIS cache only "even" for socket.getUsername-like function to have always last data
  - [ ] HTTP: implement emitter in user and room form POST
  - [ ] HTTP: invalidate REDIS cache in user and room form POST
  - [ ] WS: implement corresponding events: room:update/user:update (or user:nickname, user:avatar, user:color, room:avatar and user:color)
  - [ ] JS: on previous events update IHM: room tab/header, onetoone tab/header

**Room ops**
- [x] Take in consideration for room:topic (centralize isGranted)
- [x] Redraw also the room header
- [ ] Repair room:deop client crash
- [ ] Sort room users list also on ownership/op status
- [ ] Add a 'room ops' list
- [ ] Factorize socket room op/owner detection in helper and update room:op/deop events

**Theme**
- [ ] Implement the new global construction
- [ ] Find i18n solution on client and server
  - [ ] Traduction fr

**Hosting**
- [ ] Implement base FQDN conf and logic to redirect each request on it (HTTP requests only)

**Branding**
- [ ] Créer la page Facebook
- [ ] Create Google Analytics account
- [ ] Changer le proriétaire du domaine : MARTINE BLAJMAN
- [ ] Soumettre le site à Google
- [ ] Créer une email contact@
- [ ] Créer une email martine@

## Release 3

**Chat**
- [ ] Change the to server->client messages : room:join/leave and user:open/close (for something like ?)
- [ ] Correct room:in for user that "reconnect"
- [ ] Replace room:out by user:disconnect on socket disconnection
- Room/onetoone history step 2
  - [ ] Cleanup history retrieving in welcome and open/join. Send last-24h activity < 500 events
  - [ ] Add Skype link to load more history
  - [ ] Implement in user:open process

**Content**
- [ ] Emails: forgot, password changed, signup
- [ ] Homepage
- [ ] Formulaire : libellés des champs, messages d'aide, messages de confirmation

**Cleaning**
- [ ] Move email configuration in conf files
- [ ] Test it on IE8-11/FF/tablet

**Help**
- [ ] Help infobox on chat interface + help button
- [ ] Help block with capture to explain the Facebook signup procedure (find best practices on internet)
- [ ] First entrance 'tutorial' (5 slides) + button to replay

**Features**
- [ ] Add bookmark a room star in header with favorites rooms in home and account and profile

**Room/user design**
- [ ] Add "your rooms" on homepage
- [ ] Add "room owned/oped/joined" on user profile

**Tooling**
- [ ] Backup
- [ ] Monitoring
- [ ] Minimum virtual traffic generation
- [ ] Basic grunt sample data injection (connect, disconnect, join/leave, create, message, ...)

## Release 4

**Chat**
- [ ] Implement async series/waterfall in socket code
- [ ] Room kick
- [ ] Auto-mention user in room message ($.fn.mentionize())

**Performance/security/maintenability**
- [ ] Compress JS: https://github.com/JakeWharton/uglify-js-middleware
- [ ] Strongify password constrains (signup, login and forgot, very long or complex)
- [ ] Remove HOGAN and re-add EJS
- [ ] Find email factorisation/rendering solution

**Social**
- [ ] Invite users in room
- [ ] Invite users in room (Facebook)
- [ ] Invite users in room (email)
- [ ] Invite your friend on donut (Facebook)

**Features**
- [ ] Add option to no join #General on connection

**Presence management**
  - [ ] Each user received on client side (room user, owner, onetoone user, home users ... but not search engine users) are instanciated as a User Model
  - [ ] This model is stored ALSO in a global knownUsers collection
  - [ ] Each model "listen for a user presence" socket.io room
  - [ ] View of this model (could have lot of different template) ... should listen for model modification : how to handle user list (room users) that are re-drawn totally? With the block listening for collection/model change?
  - [ ] How to cleanup users that have totally leave our vision space (no longer in the room we are, no one to one open, not displayed on room)

## Next releases

Critical:
- [ ] Room ban (time and permanent)
- [ ] Fix bug that maintain user logged in chat on logout
- [ ] Introduce guest mode (= no ?) and allow guest option

Chat:
- [ ] Replace user_id by username in user:profile request

Backend:
- [ ] Traditional page secured zone
- [ ] Room crud
- [ ] User crud
- [ ] Instant online user list
-- [ ] real time activity monitor (multi connections)
- [ ] Instant active room list
-- [ ] real time activity monitor
- [ ] Server list and state
- [ ] Aggregate some data to have count 

Features:
- [ ] Message history on arrow up/down (localstorage ?)
- [ ] Highlight messages of the same user of this message
- [ ] Bookmark user
- [ ] Add sound on events
- [ ] Private room
- [ ] User can black-list other users (invitation and onetoone)
- [ ] Add form validation client-side: account/*, login, signup

Mobile:
- [ ] Make it work on tablet/phone (browser)
- [ ] (mobile) Port a mobile version with Steroids.js
- [ ] Identify and track devices for each socket/activity

Ideas:
- [ ] Room widget to paste on a website to incentive website visitor to join the room
- [ ] Loyalty, advanced offline notification system (email, sms, frequency (instant, daily, weekly), filter (all activity, mentions, one to one, room where i am) with direct link to room/one to one allow fast anwser (even on mobile)
- [ ] Public mod for a room (all the content is visible by anyone)
- [ ] Pin a message
- [ ] Hyperlink analyse and open graph extraction with hover popin in rooms and discussions (specific template for YouTube content)

## Project

- [ ] Run OPQAST security checklist
- [ ] Mocha/Chai + casperjs tests
